README.md, before:

# Python exercises for incoming MScFE students
 This repository contains three Python programming exercises that illustrate the sort of techniques you will use in the University of York's [MSc in Fusion Energy](https://www.york.ac.uk/study/postgraduate-taught/courses/msc-fusion-energy/) course. These exercises were written by a former student and serve as a 'litmus test' for your preparedness. If you can do all three (or you can at least understand the solutions), you'll be fine with the course content. If not, you might want to brush up on your Python before the course starts.

If you're completely new to Python, you may wish to start with e.g. [Codecademy's Python course](https://www.codecademy.com/learn/learn-python-3) first then come back to this later. Codecademy also have a ['Analyze Data with Python'](https://www.codecademy.com/learn/paths/analyze-data-with-python) course, which covers Python, NumPy, SciPy, Matplotlib (and using Jupyter Notebooks), which should set you up nicely to complete these exercises.

Each exercise is in a separate folder (also linked below). Ensure you download the relevant data file(s) for each exercise before you begin. 
- [Exercise 1](ex1/README.md)
- [Exercise 2](ex2/README.md)
- [Exercise 3](ex3/README.md)

If you'd like to work through additional exercises, see https://lectures.scientific-python.org/

If you have any questions about the exercises or spot any mistakes, feel free to email me: [bailey.cook@york.ac.uk](mailto:bailey.cook@york.ac.uk).

## Requirements
- [Python 3](https://www.python.org/): to check whether you have Python 3 installed, type python3 --version into your terminal (or PowerShell on Windows). If Python is not installed, you can download it from python.org. You can find some concise guidance for installing Python [here](docs/installing-python.md).
- [NumPy](https://numpy.org/), [SciPy](https://scipy.org/) and [Matplotlib](https://matplotlib.org/). These Python libraries are frequently used in scientific computing. They're completely free to download and use.
- Optional: [Git](https://git-scm.com/). If you wish to clone this repository (see instructions below), you'll need to install Git. Instructions [here](https://git-scm.com/book/en/v2/Getting-Started-Installing-Git).

## Running the solutions
If you wish to run the solutions provided for each exercise, you need to ensure you have the correct libraries installed. To do this, follow the instructions below.

**1. Clone this repository**
```sh
https://github.com/baiway/MScFE_python_refresher.git
```

**2. Change into the project directory**
```sh
cd MScFe_python_refresher
```

**3. Create a virtual environment.** If you'd like to learn more about the benefits of using virtual environments, watch [this video](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Y21OR1OPC9A).
```sh
python3 -m venv .venv
```

**4. Activate the virtual environment.**

The command varies by operating system. On macOS or Linux, enter
```sh
source .venv/bin/activate
```

If using PowerShell on Windows, enter
```sh
.venv\Scripts\Activate.ps1
```

**5. Install dependencies**
```sh
pip3 install -r requirements.txt
```

You should now be able to run the code in each `solution.py`.

Commit message:

Encourage user to run git --version before installing

README.md, after:

# Python exercises for incoming MScFE students
 This repository contains three Python programming exercises that illustrate the sort of techniques you will use in the University of York's [MSc in Fusion Energy](https://www.york.ac.uk/study/postgraduate-taught/courses/msc-fusion-energy/) course. These exercises were written by a former student and serve as a 'litmus test' for your preparedness. If you can do all three (or you can at least understand the solutions), you'll be fine with the course content. If not, you might want to brush up on your Python before the course starts.

If you're completely new to Python, you may wish to start with e.g. [Codecademy's Python course](https://www.codecademy.com/learn/learn-python-3) first then come back to this later. Codecademy also have a ['Analyze Data with Python'](https://www.codecademy.com/learn/paths/analyze-data-with-python) course, which covers Python, NumPy, SciPy, Matplotlib (and using Jupyter Notebooks), which should set you up nicely to complete these exercises.

Each exercise is in a separate folder (also linked below). Ensure you download the relevant data file(s) for each exercise before you begin. 
- [Exercise 1](ex1/README.md)
- [Exercise 2](ex2/README.md)
- [Exercise 3](ex3/README.md)

If you'd like to work through additional exercises, see https://lectures.scientific-python.org/

If you have any questions about the exercises or spot any mistakes, feel free to email me: [bailey.cook@york.ac.uk](mailto:bailey.cook@york.ac.uk).

## Requirements
- [Python 3](https://www.python.org/): to check whether you have Python 3 installed, type python3 --version into your terminal (or PowerShell on Windows). If Python is not installed, you can download it from python.org. You can find some concise guidance for installing Python [here](docs/installing-python.md).
- [NumPy](https://numpy.org/), [SciPy](https://scipy.org/) and [Matplotlib](https://matplotlib.org/). These Python libraries are frequently used in scientific computing. They're completely free to download and use.
- Optional: [Git](https://git-scm.com/). If you wish to clone this repository (see instructions below), you'll need to have Git installed on your computer. You can check if it's installed using `git --version`. If you don't already have it, follow the installation instructions [here](https://git-scm.com/book/en/v2/Getting-Started-Installing-Git).

## Running the solutions
If you wish to run the solutions provided for each exercise, you need to ensure you have the correct libraries installed. To do this, follow the instructions below.

**1. Clone this repository**
```sh
https://github.com/baiway/MScFE_python_refresher.git
```

**2. Change into the project directory**
```sh
cd MScFe_python_refresher
```

**3. Create a virtual environment.** If you'd like to learn more about the benefits of using virtual environments, watch [this video](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Y21OR1OPC9A).
```sh
python3 -m venv .venv
```

**4. Activate the virtual environment.**

The command varies by operating system. On macOS or Linux, enter
```sh
source .venv/bin/activate
```

If using PowerShell on Windows, enter
```sh
.venv\Scripts\Activate.ps1
```

**5. Install dependencies**
```sh
pip3 install -r requirements.txt
```

You should now be able to run the code in each `solution.py`.
